<!-- datatype_mapping.md {% comment %}
*****************************************************************************************
*                            WARNING: DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE                             *
*                                                                                       *
* This file is generated by SUSHI. Any edits you make to this file will be overwritten. *
*                                                                                       *
* To change the contents of this file, edit the original source file at:                *
* ig-data\input\includes\datatype_mapping.md                                            *
*****************************************************************************************
{% endcomment %} -->
* HL7 v2
   * Sort Order
      * See the [General Guidelines](mapping_guidelines.html#general-format)
   * Identifier
      * Contains the formal Data Type Name and Component Sequence according to the base standard using "." as the delimiter.
      * In a couple of places, e.g., DTM data type, mapping is based on the physical position in the component.  This will be noted using (pn)(x-y), e.g., DTM.(p1)(3-4)
         * (pn) - the part of the data type, e.g., (p1) for part 1.
         * (x-y) - the position within the part, e.g., (3-4).  This may just be a single position, e.g., (5).
         * Note the use of parts is relatively arbitrary.  In the case of DTM this is used for the year/month/date/time aspect vs. the time offset aspect.  However, if one wants to use the absolute position of across parts, add the position start/end (x and y) to the last position of the prior part.
   * Name
      * The formal name of the data type in the most current published version
   * Data Type
      * The data type of the component in the most current published version if not deprecated
      * Otherwise it is the data type at the time it was deprecated and removed.
   * Cardinality (Min and Max)
      * The cardinality in the most current published version expressed numerically if not deprecated
      * Otherwise it reflects the cardinality at the time it was deprecated and removed.
* Condition
   * See the [General Guidelines](mapping_guidelines.html#general-format)
* HL7 FHIR
   * FHIR Attribute
      * The first column reflects an existing FHIR attribute in the target FHIR version.
      * The second column reflects a proposed extension.  It will be expressed with #ext-......# around the proposed name.  Once approved, the formal name will be put in the first column.
      * This approach will enable tooling to already process existing FHIR attributes and not have to create special handling for elements still being proposed.
   * Data Type
      * The FHIR attribute's data type in the target FHIR version.
      * Like the v2 data type, a physical position may be used, e.g., with DataTime.  See above for interpretation.
   * Cardinality (Min and Max)
      * The FHIR attribute's minimum and maximum cardinality in the target FHIR version.
   * Data Type Mapping
      * The URL to the Data Type Map that is to be used for the component in this segment.
      * There may be multiple flavors of the data type maps to support different mappings.  The flavor is appended to the end of the data type name using [] brackets, e.g., CWE[Coding].
   * Vocabulary Mapping
      * The URL to the Vocabulary Map that is to be used for the coded element for this attribute.
   * Assignment
      * The value that is to be assigned to the FHIR Attribute referenced. If it is to be set to a particular string, it is uses "string". If it is to be set to a value in a v2 element or FHIR attribute, the identifier for that element/attribute is stated, e.g., CWE.4 or Patient.identifier.value. Note these can be combined if multiple values need to be concatenated together.
