<!-- segment_mapping.md {% comment %}
*****************************************************************************************
*                            WARNING: DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE                             *
*                                                                                       *
* This file is generated by SUSHI. Any edits you make to this file will be overwritten. *
*                                                                                       *
* To change the contents of this file, edit the original source file at:                *
* ig-data\input\includes\segment_mapping.md                                             *
*****************************************************************************************
{% endcomment %} -->
* HL7 v2
   * Sort Order
      * See the [General Guidelines](mapping_guidelines.html#general-format)
      * If a FHIR attribute is required but there is no v2 element to map from, the sort order is "0".
   * Identifier
      * Contains the formal Segment Name and Field Sequence according to the base standard using "-" as the delimiter.
      * If the Sort Order is "0" this cell will be set to "Implied".
   * Name
      * The formal name of the field in the most current published version
   * Data Type
      * The data type of the field in the most current published version if not deprecated
      * Otherwise it is the data type at the time it was deprecated and removed.
   * Cardinality (Min and Max)
      * The cardinality in the most current published version expressed numerically if not deprecated
      * Otherwise it reflects the cardinality at the time it was deprecated and removed.
* Condition
   * See the [General Guidelines](mapping_guidelines.html#general-format)
* HL7 FHIR
   * FHIR Attribute
      * The first column reflects an existing FHIR attribute in the target FHIR version.
         * When there is not a single attribute to point to, rather a v2 field needs to be mapped to multiple FHIR attribute, e.g., ORC-27 Quantity/Timing where the TQ data type components need to be mapped to multiple ServiceRequest attributes, then the label "$this" is used.  Further mapping guidance is then provided in the Data Type mapping column.
      * The second column reflects a proposed extension.  It will be expressed with #ext-......# around the proposed name.  Once approved, the formal name will be put in the first column.
      * This approach will enable tooling to already process existing FHIR attributes and not have to create special handling for elements still being proposed.
    * Data Type
      * The FHIR attribute's data type in the target FHIR version.
   * Cardinality (Min and Max)
      * The FHIR attribute's minimum and maximum cardinality in the target FHIR version.
   * Data Type Mapping
      * The URL to the Data Type Map that is to be used for the attribute in this segment.
      * There may be multiple flavors of the data type maps to support different mappings.  The flavor is appended to the end of the data type name using [] brackets, e.g., CWE[Coding].
   * Vocabulary Mapping
      * The URL to the Vocabulary Map that is to be used for the coded element for this attribute.
   * Assignment
      * The value that is to be assigned to the FHIR Attribute referenced.  
         * If it is to be set to a particular string, it is uses "string".  
         * If it is to be set to a value in a v2 element or FHIR attribute, the identifier for that element/attribute is stated, e.g., PID-3.1 or Patient.identifier.value.
         * If there is no specific string or variable that is to be used, then the instructions are included between // bars, e.g., /instructions/.
      * Note these can be combined if multiple values need to be concatenated together.
