{% raw %}<div xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><h2>Segment_MSH_Map (http://hl7.org/fhir/v2-tofhir)</h2><p>Mapping from https://www.hl7.org/v2 to https://www.hl7.org/fhir</p><p>ACTIVE (not intended for production usage). Published on Mar 1, 2020, 12:00:00 AM by HL7 International (HL7 Orders and Observations Workgroup: <a href="mailto:https://confluence.hl7.org/display/OO/v2-to-FHIR+IG">https://confluence.hl7.org/display/OO/v2-to-FHIR+IG</a>, Keith W. Boone: <a href="mailto:kboone@ainq.com">kboone@ainq.com</a>). Copyright (c) 2020, HL7 International, Inc., All Rights Reserved.</p><div><p>This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 MSH Segment to the FHIR MessageHeader Resource representing that segment.</p>
</div><br/><table class="grid"><tr><td><b>Source Code</b></td><td><b>Relationship</b></td><td><b>Destination Code</b></td><td><b>Comment</b></td></tr><tr><td>MSH-3</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.source</td><td>Example: MSH|^~%|LAB^2.16.840.1.113883.3.987.1^ISO|...
Example: MSH|^~%|LAB|…
How do we populate this if MSH-3 is not valued?</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-4</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.sender(Organization)</td><td>How do we populate this if MSH-4 is not valued?
How do we represent HD and identifiers? Need to work with InM.
Should consider aligning sender/receiver constructs.
Open gForge to request that </td></tr><tr><td>MSH-5</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.destination[1]</td><td>Example: MSH...|RH^2.16.840.1.113883.632.3^ISO|...</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-6</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.destination[1].receiver(Organization)</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-7</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>Bundle.timestamp</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-8</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.meta.security</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-9</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.event.coding</td><td>Set up time with InM.  Set up mapping tables for all components (message code, trigger event, structure)</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-10</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>Bundle.identifier</td><td>Need a gForge to request a MessageHeader.identifier (https://gforge.hl7.org/gf/project/fhir/tracker/?action=TrackerItemEdit&amp;tracker_item_id=20704&amp;start=0)
Note that if a message is part of a batch, then the MSH goes to a &quot;sub-bundle&quot;..
Note that as messages switch from V2 to FHIR and the response back from FHIR to V2, the &quot;mapping engine&quot; needs to track the actual MSH.10.00.00 value and Bundle.identifier value to connect responses correctly.</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-10</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>Bundle.type</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-11</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.meta.tag</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-17</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.sender(Organization.address.country)</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-19</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.language</td><td>This does only cover the MessageHeader resource. Need to have clarity that if other resources that are part of the message that do not have Resource.meta.language valued, then it is assumed to follow MessageHeader.meta.language?? Doesn't seem RESTful, so what is the default for Resource.meta.language?</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-22</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.responsible(Organization)</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-23</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.destination[1].receiver(Organization)</td><td>This is an alternate representation of MSH-6.  The local implementation needs to determine whech components of HD vs. XON to be used and whether it may even yield a separate Organization reference.</td></tr><tr><td>MSH-24</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>Messageheader.source.endpoint</td><td/></tr><tr><td>MSH-25</td><td><a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/codesystem-concept-map-equivalence.html#equivalent">is equivalent to</a></td><td>MessageHeader.destination[1].endpoint</td><td>This is an alternate representation of MSH-5.  Need to agree on prioritization.</td></tr></table></div>{% endraw %}