{% raw %} <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-hl7-concept-map-access-restriction-reason-code-sheet1.json.html">ConceptMap_HL7 Concept Map_ Access Restriction Reason Code - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table HL7 Concept Map_ Access Restriction Reason Code - Sheet1.csv to the FHIR Unknown Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-hl7-concept-map-collection-method-modifier-sheet1.csv.json.html">ConceptMap_HL7 Concept Map_ Collection Method Modifier - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table HL7 Concept Map_ Collection Method Modifier - Sheet1.csv to the FHIR Unknown Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-hl7-concept-map-duration-unit-sheet1.csv-to-unknown.json.html">ConceptMap_HL7 Concept Map_ Duration Unit - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table HL7 Concept Map_ Duration Unit - Sheet1.csv to the FHIR Unknown Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-hl7-concept-map-language-sheet1.csv-to-unknown.json.html">ConceptMap_HL7 Concept Map_ Language - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table HL7 Concept Map_ Language - Sheet1.csv to the FHIR Unknown Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-hl7-concept-map-religion-sheet1.csv-to-unknown.json.html">ConceptMap_HL7 Concept Map_ Religion - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table HL7 Concept Map_ Religion - Sheet1.csv to the FHIR Unknown Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0001-to-gender.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0001_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0001 to the FHIR Gender Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0002-to-marital-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0002_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0002 to the FHIR Marital Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0004-to-encounter-class.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0004_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0004 to the FHIR Encounter Class Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0004-to-encounter-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0004_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0004 to the FHIR Encounter Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0007-to-admission-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0007_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0007 to the FHIR Admission Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0063-to-relationship.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0063_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0063 to the FHIR Relationship Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0078-to-interpretation-codes.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0078_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0078 to the FHIR Interpretation Codes Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0085-to-observation-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0085_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0085 to the FHIR Observation Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0092-to-readmission-indicator.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0092_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0092 to the FHIR Readmission Indicator Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0123-to-result-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0123_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0123 to the FHIR Result Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0125-to-value-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0125_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0125 to the FHIR Value Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0127-to-allergy-category.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0127_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0127 to the FHIR Allergy Category Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0127-to-allergy-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0127_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0127 to the FHIR Allergy Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0131-to-contact-role.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0131_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0131 to the FHIR Contact Role Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0136-to-specimen-availability.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0136_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0136 to the FHIR Specimen Availability Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0136-to-yesno.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0136_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0136 to the FHIR YesNo Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0155-to-acknowledgements.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0155_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0155 to the FHIR Acknowledgements Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0185-to-preferred-method-of-contact.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0185_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0185 to the FHIR Preferred Method of Contact Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0190-to-address-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0190_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0190 to the FHIR Address Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0200-to-name-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0200_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0200 to the FHIR Name Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0201-to-telecom-use-code.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0201_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0201 to the FHIR Telecom Use Code Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0203-to-id-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0203_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0203 to the FHIR ID Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0206-to-segment-action-code.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0206_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0206 to the FHIR Segment Action Code Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0217-to-encounter-priority.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0217_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0217 to the FHIR Encounter Priority Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0231-to-student-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0231_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0231 to the FHIR Student Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0301-to-universal-id-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0301_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0301 to the FHIR Universal ID Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0315-to-living-will.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0315_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0315 to the FHIR Living Will Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0322-to-completion-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0322_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0322 to the FHIR Completion Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0406-to-organization-unit-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0406_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0406 to the FHIR Organization Unit Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0430-to-mode-of-arrival.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0430_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0430 to the FHIR Mode of Arrival Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0441-to-registry-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0441_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0441 to the FHIR Registry Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0443-to-role.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0443_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0443 to the FHIR Role Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0444-to-name-assembly-order.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0444_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0444 to the FHIR Name Assembly Order Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0480-to-order-type.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0480_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0480 to the FHIR Order Type Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0485-to-priority.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0485_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0485 to the FHIR Priority Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0498-to-consent-status.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0498_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0498 to the FHIR Consent Status Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0549-to-consent-relationship.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0549_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0549 to the FHIR Consent Relationship Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-conceptmap-v2-0717-to-access-restriction-value.json.html">ConceptMap_v2-0717_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 Table v2-0717 to the FHIR Access Restriction Value Value Set.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-al1-to-allergyintolerance.json.html">Segment_AL1_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 AL1 Segment to the FHIR AllergyIntolerance Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-dg1-to-condition.json.html">Segment_DG1_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 DG1 Segment to the FHIR Condition Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-hl7-segment-fhir-r4-orcmedicationrequest-sheet1.csv-to-u.json.html">Segment_HL7 Segment - FHIR R4_ ORC[MedicationRequest] - Sheet1.csv_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 HL7 Segment - FHIR R4_ ORC[MedicationRequest] - Sheet1.csv Segment to the FHIR Unknown Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-iam-to-allergyintolerance.json.html">Segment_IAM_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 IAM Segment to the FHIR AllergyIntolerance Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-msh-to-messageheader.json.html">Segment_MSH_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 MSH Segment to the FHIR MessageHeader Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-nk1-patient-to-patient.json.html">Segment_NK1!Patient_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 NK1!Patient Segment to the FHIR Patient Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-nk1-relatedperson-to-relatedperson.json.html">Segment_NK1!RelatedPerson_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 NK1!RelatedPerson Segment to the FHIR RelatedPerson Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-nte-annotation-to-annotation.json.html">Segment_NTE!Annotation_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 NTE!Annotation Segment to the FHIR Annotation Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-obr-diagnosticreport-to-diagnosticreport.json.html">Segment_OBR!DiagnosticReport_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 OBR!DiagnosticReport Segment to the FHIR DiagnosticReport Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-obr-servicerequest-to-servicerequest.json.html">Segment_OBR!ServiceRequest_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 OBR!ServiceRequest Segment to the FHIR ServiceRequest Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-obx-observation-to-observation.json.html">Segment_OBX!Observation_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 OBX!Observation Segment to the FHIR Observation Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-obx-observationcomponent-to-observation.json.html">Segment_OBX!ObservationComponent_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 OBX!ObservationComponent Segment to the FHIR Observation Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-orc-diagnosticreport-to-diagnosticreport.json.html">Segment_ORC!DiagnosticReport_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ORC!DiagnosticReport Segment to the FHIR DiagnosticReport Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-orc-immunization-to-immunization.json.html">Segment_ORC!Immunization_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ORC!Immunization Segment to the FHIR Immunization Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-orc-provenance-to-provenance.json.html">Segment_ORC!Provenance_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ORC!Provenance Segment to the FHIR Provenance Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-orc-servicerequest-to-servicerequest.json.html">Segment_ORC!ServiceRequest_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ORC!ServiceRequest Segment to the FHIR ServiceRequest Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-pd1-to-patient.json.html">Segment_PD1_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 PD1 Segment to the FHIR Patient Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-pid-to-patient.json.html">Segment_PID_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 PID Segment to the FHIR Patient Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-pv1-to-encounter.json.html">Segment_PV1_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 PV1 Segment to the FHIR Encounter Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-pv2-to-encounter.json.html">Segment_PV2_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 PV2 Segment to the FHIR Encounter Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-rol-pid-to-patient.json.html">Segment_ROL!PID_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ROL!PID Segment to the FHIR Patient Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-rol-pid-to-relatedperson.json.html">Segment_ROL!PID_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ROL!PID Segment to the FHIR RelatedPerson Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-rol-pv1-to-encounterpv1.json.html">Segment_ROL!PV1_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 ROL!PV1 Segment to the FHIR Encounter[PV1] Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-rxa-immunization-to-immunization.json.html">Segment_RXA!Immunization_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 RXA!Immunization Segment to the FHIR Immunization Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-sft-to-messageheader.json.html">Segment_SFT_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 SFT Segment to the FHIR MessageHeader Resource representing that segment.</li>
 <li><a href="ConceptMap-segment-spm-specimen-to-specimen.json.html">Segment_SPM!Specimen_Map</a> This ConceptMap represents the mapping from the HL7 V2 SPM!Specimen Segment to the FHIR Specimen Resource representing that segment.</li>
{% endraw %}